docs(pattern): Login pattern from IoT (#321)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/experimental/login-pattern/index.mdx

---

> title: Login page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Login pattern
```

---

#### Status

[Experimental](/experimental/overview)

#### Maintainer:

[Chris Reckling](https://github.com/creckling)

<PageDescription>

> The login pattern lets the user authenticate with the system so that they can have authorized access to product functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The login pattern lets the user authenticate with a system for authorized access to product functionality.
```

</PageDescription>

## Overview

> Login patterns ensure a user can authenticate into the system so they can access their data securely. Mobile login screens should follow the same pattern and illustration style as the desktop experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Login patterns ensure a user can authenticate into a system so they can access their data securely. Mobile login screens should follow the same pattern and illustration style as the desktop experience.
```

> The "Forgot Password" pattern is separate from the authentication and login pattern. If there are several products being a login, a user should be able to choose which product log into.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Forgot Password" pattern is separate from the authentication and login pattern. If there are several products requiring a login, a user should be able to choose which product to log into.
```

## Login form variations

### Centered login form

The centered login includes copyright information in the footer. Refer to your product content team for these details.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a login screen with a color background](images/login-pattern-example1.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a centered login screen with a background illustration](images/login-background-Image.png)

</Column>
</Row>

If you choose to include an illustration, ensure the art reflects the product. Keep it simple and aligned with the product's aesthetic.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a login screen with a simple illustration](images/login-pattern-example2.png)

</Column>
</Row>

### Login form on the right

> Right-side logins are ideal for editorial experiences, and instances where there is visual content featured on the left side of the window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right-side logins are ideal for editorial experiences and instances where there is visual content featured on the left side of the window.
```
